added audio capture doc and capability (#1161)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/mobile-apps/features/audio-capture.md

---
id: audio-capture
title: Audio Capture
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> 

Author: @aoleszyn Please add **Real Device only** badge. You can find an example [here](https://docs.saucelabs.com/mobile-apps/features/camera-image-injection/).

Reviewer: Badge added.

> # Audio Capture 

Author: @aoleszyn Per our convo, please remove this (no headers needed for introductory paragraph).

Reviewer: Header removed

Audio Capture is a functionality that gives you the ability to record the audio stream generated by your native mobile app (Android or iOS/iPadOS) during a live or automated real device test. 

With this feature, the audio is recorded on our side and merged with the video recording, which you can access in your **Test Results**.

## What You'll Need

* A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up))
* A native Android, iOS, or iPadOS mobile app that makes HTTP/HTTPS requests. We currently support the following:
  * Android 10 and higher
  * iOS 10+ up to iOS 15.3

## Using Audio Capture on Real Devices

> To enable audio capture in your tests: 

Author: Audio Capture is lowercase here and capitalized in her parts of the doc. I would pick one for consistency. @aoleszyn

Reviewer: Corrected.

 
1. On Sauce Labs, click **Live** > **Mobile App**.
2. [Upload your mobile app to Sauce Labs](/mobile-apps/app-storage) through the UI or CLI.

> 3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, then select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>

Author: Image width is pretty big -- I would resize to about 600 @aoleszyn

Reviewer: Resized screenshot to 600

4. Under Default Settings, toggle Instrumentation and App/OS Audio to enable the feature. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/audio_capture_screen2.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>
5. **For Automated Testing only:** add the `audioCapture` capability to your test script. Click the link below corresponding to your framework:
   * Espresso (coming soon)

>    * XCUITest (coming soon)

Author: @aoleszyn Once [this](https://github.com/saucelabs/sauce-docs/pull/1161/files#r850751762) is done, please finish adding the links.

Reviewer 2: lets do that in an other PR as we did with network capture. (feature went out without Espresso/Xcuit) backend not yet ready

   * [Appium](/dev/test-configuration-options/#audiocapture)
  
  

> Now you can start your live or automated testing session.Your audio recording will be captured and be part of the video recording in the test results page.

Reviewer 2: whitespace after the period?

Author: It doesn't look like it's fixed. :( I'll correct it.

Reviewer: For some reason it was not saved... it is fixed now !

## Accessing the Audio in Your Test Tesults

The audio recording will be included into the video recording, which you can play back and download from the built-in media player on the **Test Results** page. 

You can also download the video file with the included audio stream programmatically using the following API request: 

```
curl --compressed \ -O https://{SAUCE_USERNAME}:{SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY}@{DATA_CENTER}.saucelabs.com/v1/rdc/jobs/{JOB_ID}/video.mp4

> ```

Author: @aoleszyn I would move Test Results section after the Android/iOS/iPadOS instructions to align with the user workflow (i.e., enable > run test > view test results).

Reviewer: Sections rearranged accordingly.

### Streaming the Audio (coming soon)

## Using Audio Capture on Android

You will be able to capture audio on Android 10 and above.

:::note

> Once `audioCapture` is enabled the status bar will display the recording icon.

Author: @aoleszyn Please fix grammatical error in this note.

Reviewer: Corrected.

> Once `audioCapture` is enabled the status bar will display the recording icon.

Author: ```suggestion
Once `audioCapture` is enabled, the status bar will display the recording icon.
```

Reviewer: Corrected.

:::

We use native Android audio capture for seamless audio capture for our real devices experience. Your test results and sessions are secured, and can only be viewed by you.
:::caution
If your apps's manifest.xml file defines `android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="false"`, you need to enable instrumentation to have Audio Capture work for your apps. 

> (screenshot of instrumentation flag)

Reviewer 2: is this intended here? :D

:::

## Using Audio Capture on iOS/iPadOS

You will be able to capture audio from iOS 10+ up to iOS 15.3. 
:::note

> The  recording and during a live testing session, you will see the status bar clock will display a static 9:41 time. This is just a visual limitation for audio capture, the system clock is not affected by this visual change. 

Author: @aoleszyn Please fix the grammatical errors in this note

Reviewer: Corrected accordingly.

---
id: Audio-capture
title: Audio Capture
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Audio Capture 

> Audio Capture is a functionality that gives you the ability to record the audio stream your native Android and iOS/iPadOS mobile app generates during tests. 
> With this feature, the audio is recorded on our side and merged with the video recording for your test results, including Live and Automated Tests Real Device tests for native applications. 

Author: ```suggestion
Audio Capture is a functionality that gives you the ability to record the audio stream generated by your native mobile app (Android or iOS/iPadOS) during a live or automated real device test. 

With this feature, the audio is recorded on our side and merged with the video recording, which you can access in your **Test Results**.
```

## What You'll Need

* A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up))
* A native Android, iOS, or iPadOS mobile app that makes HTTP/HTTPS requests. We currently support the following:
  * Android 10 and higher
  * iOS 10+ up to iOS 15.3

## Using Audio Capture on Real Devices

To enable audio capture in your tests: 
 
1. On Sauce Labs, click **Live** > **Mobile App**.
2. [Upload your mobile app to Sauce Labs](/mobile-apps/app-storage) through the UI or CLI.
3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, then select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>
4. Under Default Settings, toggle Instrumentation and App/OS Audio to enable the feature. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/audio_capture_screen2.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

>    
> **For Automated Testing only:** add the audioCapture capability to your test script. Click the link below corresponding to your framework:
>  
> * Espresso (coming soon)
> * XCUITest (coming soon)
> * [Appium](/dev/test-configuration-options/#audiocapture)

Author: ```suggestion
5. **For Automated Testing only:** add the `audioCapture` capability to your test script. Click the link below corresponding to your framework:
   * Espresso (coming soon)
   * XCUITest (coming soon)
   * [Appium](/dev/test-configuration-options/#audiocapture)
```

  
  
Now you can start your live or automated testing session.Your audio recording will be captured and be part of the video recording in the test results page.

> ## Accessing the Audio through test results page

Author: Headers should be titlecase @aoleszyn 

```suggestion
## Accessing the Audio through Test Tesults page
```

> The audio recording will be included into the video recording in your test results page! You will be able to replay the audio with the built in media player in the test results page. 

Author: ```suggestion
The audio recording will be included into the video recording, which you will can play back and download from the built-in media player on the **Test Results** page. 
```

You can also download the video file with the included audio stream programmatically using the following API request: 

```
curl --compressed \ -O https://{SAUCE_USERNAME}:{SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY}@{DATA_CENTER}.saucelabs.com/v1/rdc/jobs/{JOB_ID}/video.mp4
```

### Streaming the Audio (coming soon)

## Using Audio Capture on Android

You will be able to capture audio on Android 10 and above.

:::note

> Once audioCapture is enabled the status bar will display the recording icon.

Author: audioCapture needs to be in code font (`audioCapture`)

Reviewer: Corrected.

:::

We use native Android audio capture for seamless audio capture for our real devices experience. Your test results and sessions are secured, and can only be viewed by you only.
:::caution

> If your applications manifest.xml file defines android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="false", you need to enable instrumentation to have Audio Capture work for your applications. 

Author: android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="false" needs to be in code font

Reviewer: Corrected.

(screenshot of instrumentation flag)
:::

## Using Audio Capture on iOS/iPadOS

You will be able to capture audio from iOS 10+ up to iOS 15.3. 
:::note
The  recording and during a live testing session, you will see the status bar clock will display a static 9:41 time. This is just a visual limitation for audio capture, the system clock is not affected by this visual change. 
:::

## Limitations

:::caution
* Emulators and Simulators are not yet supported. 
* Cross browser testing is not yet available. 
:::

> ## More information

Author: ```suggestion
## More Information
```

---
id: audio-capture
title: Audio Capture
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<p><small><span className="sauceDBlue">Real Devices Only</span></small></p>

Audio Capture is a functionality that gives you the ability to record the audio stream generated by your native mobile app (Android or iOS/iPadOS) during a live or automated real device test. 

With this feature, the audio is recorded on our side and merged with the video recording, which you can access in your **Test Results**.

## What You'll Need

* A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up))
* A native Android, iOS, or iPadOS mobile app that makes HTTP/HTTPS requests. We currently support the following:
  * Android 10 and higher
  * iOS 10+ up to iOS 15.3

## Using Audio Capture on Real Devices

To enable Audio Capture in your tests: 
 
1. On Sauce Labs, click **Live** > **Mobile App**.
2. [Upload your mobile app to Sauce Labs](/mobile-apps/app-storage) through the UI or CLI.

> 3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, and select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

Reviewer 3: @aoleszyn Should be "and then select **Settings**"

Reviewer: Corrected

> 3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, then select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

Reviewer 3: Add "and" before "then select **Settings**"

> 4. Under Default Settings, toggle Instrumentation and App/OS Audio to enable the feature. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/audio_capture_screen2.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>

Reviewer 3: Make "Default Settings" bold

Reviewer 3: Make "Instrumentation and App/OS Audio" bold

Reviewer: Corrected

> 4. Under **Default Settings**, toggle Instrumentation and App/OS Audio to enable the feature. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/audio_capture_screen2.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>

Reviewer: Corrected.

> 5. **For Automated Testing only:** add the `audioCapture` capability to your test script. Click the link below corresponding to your framework:

Reviewer 3: @aoleszyn Sorry I missed this on my first review, but it should be "Click the link below that corresponds to your framework"

Reviewer: Corrected.

   * Espresso (coming soon)
   * XCUITest (coming soon)
   * [Appium](/dev/test-configuration-options/#audiocapture)
  

> Now you can start your live or automated testing session. Your audio recording will be captured and be part of the video recording in the test results page.

Reviewer 2: @aoleszyn

> Now you can start your live or automated testing session. Your audio recording will be captured and be part of the video recording in the test results page.

Reviewer: Corrected

> Now you can start your live or automated testing session. Your audio recording will be captured and be part of the video recording on the test results page.

Reviewer 3: @aoleszyn Should be "Test Results page"

Reviewer: Corrected.

### Streaming the Audio (coming soon)

## Using Audio Capture on Android

You will be able to capture audio on Android 10 and above.

:::note
Once `audioCapture` is enabled, the status bar will display the recording icon.
:::

We use native Android audio capture for seamless audio capture for our real devices experience. Your test results and sessions are secured, and can only be viewed by you.
:::caution
If your apps's manifest.xml file defines `android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="false"`, you need to enable instrumentation to have Audio Capture work for your apps. 
<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/audio_capture_screen3.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>
:::

## Using Audio Capture on iOS/iPadOS

You will be able to capture audio from iOS 10+ up to iOS 15.3. 

:::note

> The status bar clock will display a static 9:41 time during the recording of live testing session. This is just a visual limitation for audio capture, the system clock is not affected by this visual change. 

Reviewer 3: Change to "This is a visual limitation for audio capture, and the system clock will not be affected."

Reviewer: Corrected

:::

## Accessing the Audio in Your Test Tesults

> The audio recording will be included into the video recording, which you can play back and download from the built-in media player on the **Test Results** page. 

Reviewer 3: Change to "in the video recording"

Reviewer 2: @aoleszyn

Reviewer: Corrected

You can also download the video file with the included audio stream programmatically using the following API request: 

```
curl --compressed \ -O https://{SAUCE_USERNAME}:{SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY}@{DATA_CENTER}.saucelabs.com/v1/rdc/jobs/{JOB_ID}/video.mp4
```

## Limitations

:::caution
* Emulators and Simulators are not yet supported. 

> * Cross browser testing is not yet available. 

Reviewer 3: Change "Cross browser testing" to "Website testing"

This is something that will be changing across the board.

Reviewer: Corrected

 
1. On Sauce Labs, click **Live** > **Mobile App**.
2. [Upload your mobile app to Sauce Labs](/mobile-apps/app-storage) through the UI or CLI.
3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, then select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

> 4. Under Default Settings, toggle Instrumentation and App/OS Audio to enable the feature. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/audio_capture_screen2.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>

Reviewer 3: Make "Default Settings" bold

> 3. After you’ve uploaded your app, return to the **Live** > **Mobile App** page, hover your mouse over your app, and select **Settings**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/mobile-apps/networkcapturescr.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="600"/>

Reviewer 3: Should be "and then" not just "then"
